# Recognition-of-plant-leaf-disease-using-Deep-learning-Approaches
Precise identification of the plant diseases through the images to improve the diagnosis process for disease management and increase crop yield by applying deep learning models such as EDSR, SRCNN, and the bicubic interpolation model.Achieved the accuracy of 97% for static images and 89% for real-time images.
Agriculture is a crucial turning point in the evolution of human civilization. Plant disease outbreaks have caused the biggest decline in agriculture, which has a substantial impact on the economy of the country and lowers the output of high-quality meals. Plant diseases have the power to eliminate species diversity and significantly reduce food output. Due to their invisible, often misconstrued symptoms and lack of readily available experience, plant diseases can be challenging for farmers to identify. This can delay identification and negatively impact crop productivity. The identification accuracy of image classification algorithms has significantly increased as a result of the early detection of various plant diseases using various detection methods. Deep learning methods have recently increased the precision of disease. Convolutional neural network, or CNN, models are used in the study that is being presented to identify disorders in plant leaves. The study leverages a dataset from Plant Village comprising 54,343 images categorized into 39 classes, each representing different plant species. For training, testing, and validation, we employed the previously trained Inception-V4 model. To achieve high accuracy in leaf disease detection, the Enhanced Deep Super Resolution Network (EDSR), bicubic interpolation models, and the Super Resolution Convolutional Neural Network (SRCNN) are used.
